Terraform: Dev (#86)
scpwiki/wikijump: docs/deployment.md

# Remote Deployment

This document will cover the process of deploying Wikijump on Amazon Web Services.

## General Architecture

> Communication with Wikijump begins at DNS. If the address is for a wikijump.com subdomain, or a custom domain CNAMEd to wikijump.com, it will hit an Elastic Load Balancer. Specifically, it will resolve to the static (elastic) IP address of a Network Load Balancer listening on ports 80 and 443, but not terminating any SSL connections. It will proxy all this traffik to the Traefik edge proxy containers running in Elastic Container Service. Traefik handles the business of SSL termination and the permanent redirecting of http to https. It will then act as a reverse proxy, forwarding the request on to other containers running php-fpm and nginx. These containers are connected to a caching layer (memcached) and a database (postgres).

Reviewer: Not blocking: would suggest wrapping words like `wikijump.com` or `CNAME` in backticks for readability. also `http` -> `HTTP`

> Communication with Wikijump begins at DNS. If the address is for a wikijump.com subdomain, or a custom domain CNAMEd to wikijump.com, it will hit an Elastic Load Balancer. Specifically, it will resolve to the static (elastic) IP address of a Network Load Balancer listening on ports 80 and 443, but not terminating any SSL connections. It will proxy all this traffik to the Traefik edge proxy containers running in Elastic Container Service. Traefik handles the business of SSL termination and the permanent redirecting of http to https. It will then act as a reverse proxy, forwarding the request on to other containers running php-fpm and nginx. These containers are connected to a caching layer (memcached) and a database (postgres).

Reviewer: How can an IP address be both static and elastic?

Author: An Elastic IP in AWS parlance is a public IP address that can be freely associated with a customer's assets, such as load balancers and EC2s. The IP is reserved by the account until explicitly released back to the pool so it functions as a static IP for a service. Without the usage of Elastic IP, every time the load balancer was recreated it would receive a new IP from the pool.

> Communication with Wikijump begins at DNS. If the address is for a wikijump.com subdomain, or a custom domain CNAMEd to wikijump.com, it will hit an Elastic Load Balancer. Specifically, it will resolve to the static (elastic) IP address of a Network Load Balancer listening on ports 80 and 443, but not terminating any SSL connections. It will proxy all this traffik to the Traefik edge proxy containers running in Elastic Container Service. Traefik handles the business of SSL termination and the permanent redirecting of http to https. It will then act as a reverse proxy, forwarding the request on to other containers running php-fpm and nginx. These containers are connected to a caching layer (memcached) and a database (postgres).

Reviewer: > it will hit an Elastic Load Balancer. Specifically, it will resolve to the static (elastic) IP address of a Network Load Balancer listening on ports 80 and 443

This seems unclear. Is there an Elastic Load Balancer in front of the Network Load Balancer, or does it have a "load balancer" (generic), whose specific subtype is "Network Load Balancer"?

Author: The latter is the correct interpretation. I'll reword.

> If the address is for a wjfiles.com subdomain, it will instead hit a CloudFront distribution. This will terminate SSL and examine the requested path. If it is for a file asset, it will retrieve the file from S3. If it is for a code-type asset, it will proxy the request to Traefik, which goes to the same php-fpm and nginx containers to return the code. As objects retrieved in this way should generally be static assets, we will make use of caching to reduce the load on our internals.

Reviewer: Do `wjfiles.com` subdomains permit HTTP?

Edit: looking below it seems it's HTTPS-only

Author: There's an HTTP->HTTPS forced upgrade for requests explicitly made to HTTP assets at wjfiles.com.

## Prerequisites

> Deployment was designed to need a minimal amount of work done in advance, but there is always some. Feel free to contribute code to run `aws` CLI calls for some of this.

Reviewer: Would reword a bit, something like:
```suggestion
Deployment was designed to need a minimal amount of work done in advance, but there is always some. Feel free to contribute code to run automate this setup (e.g. a script that calls the `aws` CLI).
```

Author: This is actually no longer relevant, no outside work is required for this deployment aside from storing secrets for the AWS creds to run this under. Updated in the next commit.
